When JHipster generated the project scaffolding,
it took an opinion on Spring profile names.
You can find these profiles in the class io.
github.
jhipster.
config.
JHipsterConstants.
You may be wondering why the package is different than our projects package.
The reason is that the constants class is part of a JHipster
library brought in as a project dependency.
This is the second time we're seeing a coupling between
our project and JHipster libraries.
You've already seen the first Spring profile constant, which is dev.
One example of its usage was to restrict visibility of the
H2 database to the dev profile only.
This is the default profile used by the JHipster application when
no other profiles have been defined at runtime.
Next is the test profile.
By default, JHipster provides this as convenience,
but doesn't leverage it directly in the generated project.
You can use this if your task configuration is different
than your dev and prod configuration.
Next is the production profile.
This profile is of concern to us for the remainder of this module,
as we will use it to drive the build of our production artifact.
The next two profiles are for cloud-based configurations.
I won't be covering this in more detail as it's
outside the scope for this course.
The swagger profile allows you to turn on or off swagger as a feature.
While we haven't covered it in the course,
swagger is a third-party dependency that provides you with a UI for
interacting with APIs from the server side of the application.
By default, JHipster enables swagger automatically when using the dev profile,
and it disables it automatically when you're using the prod profile.
Commonly,
I'll disable swagger in production to remove any potential security concerns.
The last profile is NO_LIQUIBASE.
We went into some depth on Liquibase while discussing the server-side code,
and using this profile we'll disable Liquibase from
running its startup of the application.
In general,
I disable Liquibase in production from the application properties directly,
however, if you really wanted to use it in production,
this profile allows you to run Liquibase without redeploying the application.
If you find these profiles don't meet your needs,
it's possible to roll your own,
however it will take a small amount of efforts to replace
references in the generated application.
Now that you know the Spring profile's available,
let's dive into the generated configuration for the application.
JHipster generates a variety of configurations for you.
For example, we saw the configuration for Liquibase earlier in the course.
For the purposes of deployment,
let's keep a focus on four property files found in
the folder src/main/resources.
The file application is a Spring Boot properties file that defines
the base configurations across all profiles.
It's found in the config sub folder.
JHipster includes its own properties for the features it's
providing in the generated application.
JHipster also gives you a section where you can define
your own application properties.
The next file is application-dev.
yml.
Th properties in this file will override those of the application.
yml file when the application is running with the Spring profile dev.
If you remember earlier,
we made a change to this file to add a property for Liquibase.
The third file is in the config folder and is named application-prod.
yml.
As with the dev version,
this properties file will override values from the application.
properties file when the prod Spring profile is active.
For the purposes of production deployment,
we're going to evaluate the values in this file.
Specifically those for the production database.
The last file is the logback-spring.
xml file.
JHipster generated this as a configuration for application logging.
By default, JHipster only defines logging to the console,
however it's likely you're going to make changes to include logging to a file.
An important note here about configuration.
JHipster defines potentially environmental-specific
values in these properties files.
Such as the database password.
As JHipster can't cover all possible deployment options,
it's recommended that you consider extracting these type of properties to an
external file that can be managed per environment by tooling.
Also note that JHipster doesn't generate a test version of the properties file.
Based on my implementations,
it's likely you'll end up adding another file to define test profile properties.
Now that you understand where and what these files,
let's make two changes to support production deployment.
As I noted,
JHipster generated a properties file for overriding
configurations in the Spring profile for production.
I'm displaying a section of this properties file where
JHipster defined the database for production.
Earlier in the course,
we generated a project that configured development to use H2 for the database,
and production to use Microsoft SQL Server.
Here we see that the production configuration defines a data source for us.
Note that the data source defines an open source library for the driver.
You may want to consider your options for the selection.
Next,
JHipster defined the URL and set the name of the
database based on the application name.
Finally,
JHipster defined a default username and password using the SA
account commonly provided by SQL Server.
Note there are other configurations to be considered for your application,
but I chose the data source configuration as it's one that's commonly changed.
As I want to define a different password for the user,
let's make that change now.
I've opened up Eclipse and I have the application-prod.
yml file in the editor.
As you can see,
JHipster defaulted the password for the data source to be yourStrong Password.
I'm going to change this to a value that I'll be using later
when we start up a SQL Server database.
Let's change the value to be Password, with a capital P,
the number 1, and an exclamation point.
Now obviously, you'll want something a bit more secure,
but this provides a basic example.
Now that we have this property changed,
let's continue the discussion on configurations.
JHipster generated a file for you named logback-spring.
xml, in the src/main/resources directory of the project.
If you're not familiarly with logback,
it's a logging framework that's essentially the successor to log4j.
It's integrated well into Spring Boot,
and I prefer it for my application logging.
There are three key items to note in this file.
First,
JHipster is defined an appender to log messages from the application to a file.
By default, this appender is commented out,
however it's almost guaranteed that you'll want to uncomment
it for your application to keep history.
Next, note that the root element defines a level with a value of #logback.
loglevel#.
This expression will actually be replaced by the Gradle build script.
If this doesn't work for you,
you can also define logging per Spring profile in this configuration file,
removing the need for this expression.
The final item to note is that JHipster has only activated
the console adaptor for the root element.
However, you again will likely want to uncomment the file appender.
Now that you've seen the content from this file,
let's activate that file appender now.
I've opened up Eclipse again, and I now have the file logback-spring.
xml in the editor.
I'm going to uncomment the file appender that's currently displayed.
I'm also going to replace the file name of logFile with
the application name of patientportal.
So now the file appender is included in the configuration.
This appender defines a log file that includes the time stamp,
and will roll over based on the policy set.
Now, we need to scroll down to the root element.
Let's make the last change here and uncomment the
file appender in the root element.
Great, now we should see a log file generated for application logging messages.
This is the last of the configuration changes needed, so let's get started into the deployment of our application.